Lets talk about a different dotfile
manager, just for a moment.
Cuz I do think it's important to know
that there's other options available.
I don't wanna just say, hey, here's
the best thing, and tell you nothing.
It's kind of rude.
And in reality,
it's just use what you like.
Now if you go to the homepage of Yet
Another Dotfile Manager they did write
this for you and
I feel obligated to read it.
[COUGH] When you live in a command line
configurations are deeply personal thing.
They are often crafted over years
of experience, battles lost, and
lessons learned, advice followed and
ingenuity rewarded.
When you are away from
your own configurations,
you are in an orphaned refugee and
an unfamiliar and hostile surroundings.
Little intense I would agree.
You feel clumsy and out of sorts,
you are filled with a sense of longing
to be back in a place you know.
A place you've built.
A place where all the short-cuts have
been worn bare by your own travels.
A place you proudly call $Home.
Yeah, so that's a little intense, right?
It's a little intense for so right away
I'm like, I don't know if I can use yet
another dotfile manager.
It almost feels like Lord of the Rings
without all the Lord talent skill and
all the things that kind of
gone into Lord of the Rings.
So I was just like, okay, this is kind
of silly, but whatever, we'll let it go.
And so yeah, Adams actually,
it's a clever program.
I'm gonna use clever in a proper way.
It does some neat things.
It actually wraps Git, and it creates
your home directory into a Git repo.
But obviously if you did git status in
your home directory what would happen?
All of your personal projects,
all of your work projects,
all the enormous amounts of node module
files will all be in there, right?
You won't even be able to tell what's
going on if you did get status,
it might even freeze your computer.
I actually am very curious to see what
happens if I tried to get add my entire
computer.
It'd be very exciting to
see what would happen.
But nonetheless what got him does
is it wraps get in and allows for
you to clone into your home directory.
And then on top of it It allows
when you do like yiadom status,
it only shows you the things
that have changed.
It doesn't show you your entire system,
right?
Because that'd be just crazy.
And so then if you want to add something,
it's just like Git yiadom add this file,
I want to add the lsp.vim.
Awesome.
Great everything's working right?
So it behaves a lot like Git,
but it allows things to work.
It also has a vaulting technique just like
Ansible, so you can store your SSH keys.
So fairly convenient, but it doesn't have
quite the same level as Ansible does for
power usage.
It's not as powerful but
it does have things available.
So you're probably asking yourself,
well what do I do?
Do I use the YADM or do I use Stow?
I haven't even mentioned dotbot,
but dotbots,
another one of these really popular ones.
You can go look it up.
I don't even use it.
But what should you use?
Well, I'm gonna tell you what I use and
why I use it,
cuz I'm not a super opinionated
person in most things.
I just find that I like certain trade offs
more than other people like certain trade
offs, right?
I'm a very singular screen, individual.
Some people my goodness,
they just love splits, right?
I can't do that it stresses me out.
I just want one screen, right?
And so we all have our own likes and
dislikes.
So for me, as far as I see, YADM doesn't
have a spot to me, or first spot for me.
It's simpler than Ansible, meaning that
Ansible has a really rich ecosystem.
Lots of plugins,
really easy way to do installation,
working with SSH keys doing faulting.
It's all kind of built in.
It has a really great system for it.
And yet I'm just isn't there, but
it's way more complex than Stow meaning
that it just still is so simple.
It has this really beautiful
separation of concerns, right?
Stow just manages your siblings and your
siblings happened to be your dotfiles.
Ansible manages your computer setup
beautiful symmetry right there right our
beautiful asymmetric
relationship right there.
It's just they do they work with
each other so well up Ivan.
>> What about bear repos?
>> So well YADM does use technically
a bear repo I did use a bear repo for
a little YADM It's just as a helper right.
If you use bear repos,
you should just use the YADM honestly,
because it creates all of that
within your home directory.
But then it just has all the nice
things built around it so
you don't have to have like that
Git ignore that you're uncut,
ignoring certain things like
it just does it for you.
So it's nicer just use YADM.
I guess I should have mentioned
that you are right, though.
Bear repos are like I'd say
the predecessor to YADM or DAPA.
Really those two are kind of like the,
that.
So what are the pros and cons?
One thing that's neat about YADM,
obviously it has the ansible vault,
like nature.
It does the bear repo makes it really,
really nice.
But I'd say a major con and such a con
that it makes me not wanna use the system.
And it's the same reason why
I don't use a bear repo also.
Is that when you're all by
the way YADM also as OS switches.
So you can actually do some OS independent
operations, which is pretty cool.
So it actually can be
a multi OS kind of system.
But one thing that I really,
I just can't do is that let's say
you've added a new script, right?
You add a new program,
you add to download some work thing and
it comes with a configuration file.
So you need to get it up there and
you need to get it in.
Well, unfortunately,
you forgot to add it to YADM.
So if you go YADM status ,is
it gonna show you that file?
No, you don't know what you are and
are not added to YADM, right?
You're gonna have to go review your files,
make sure you have those things running.
And for me that's really painful.
And the reason why I love Stow
is that if I go to my .files,
which I'm already here in my .files,
there we go.
That if I change something like
git status, I have nothing here.
So if I change anything, if I just add
a file file, right, and I save it,
I can literally go git status and
I go, wow, yeah,
I still haven't committed this thing yet.
And so Stow allows me to have
this really nice management but
I know exactly what
the state of my stuff is in.
Now obviously the con to stow is that
before I put any RC into my system,
I first have to create
its file structure and
folder-like nature inside
of my Stow directory.
And then properly put it where it should
be mapped into my home directory.
And then on top of that, I need to create
the file and make sure it's saved there.
And then I have that nice Git kind of,
I've made this change,
I need to commit it.
And for me, I have to do a piece of
work no matter what for either approach.
It's just one of them is really easy to
know when I've screwed up the other one is
much harder, I feel like and
I don't know I like Stow better.
Stow just feels more natural.
Whereas the YADM just takes such
advantage of your home system.
I could see myself constantly
forgetting to add files.
So, personal choice, go check it out,
make your own determination.
I think that's just the best
way to live anyways.
So this really kind of marks
the end of section one.
This is how you get your computer
kind of up and running and
being something right away.
Hopefully if you if everyone here takes
the time it might take you a day now, but
it's gonna save you days in the future
when you have all these things set up.
Because that's the reality is like even
we were talking about this last night.
It's like that thousand cut problem
where you get a new computer,
you think you have everything up and
running day two day ten comes by and
you're like, I forgot that one thing.
Then if your computer's broken, like it's
gone forever, but if you still have your
plane, that weird game of getting one file
to the other computer, it's just like,
it's always such a mess.
It's never smooth.
And so I've just finally decided after
having to do it way too many times.
I'm just going to simply have a system
that I can recreate at any moment.
Now, inevitably libraries are going to
change, things are going to change,
I am going to have to do some
level of maintenance to my script.
So my goal is to try to
keep it pretty simple and
only have the things that
are really important.
And then try to actually have
maybe separated scripts one for
just my job right.
Here are all the teams I work on,
here's all their installation processes.
So it's always a little bit easier to
know when things have gotten out of sync,
a little easier to just
kind of maintain those.
Cuz then if I have a new computer,
I don't have to have everything ready.
I may only need my personal stuff, plus
the one team I'm currently working on.
It just makes life, I'd say,
a little bit easier.
We did talk about Ansible.
So hopefully you feel that hopefully
you're really excited about Stow.
I think Stow is really great.
And really, I'd say the hardest part
about this section is it's just adopting
a new mindset, right?
The mindset is that you have to be
willing to change a few things of how you
do it now to gain the benefit for
you in the future.
Because let's just face it,
we all don't care about me in the future.
We're all like, I'll just he'll just
get the computer running, right?
And so it's like, really,
you gotta wanna help yourself later on.
Because it is going to just save
you just a enormous amount of time.
I feel like today I could honestly
get a brand new computer up and
running in about 30 minutes, right
because installation just takes so long.
Getting i three installed I have to shut
things down and relaunch and backup with i
three running all that so it should be but
it should be fairly darn quick.
You should also probably follow my
approach if you're gonna do this,
create a Docker image right?
Create a docker image with nothing
on it so you can just test hey.
I want to make sure I
have this installed or
if you like fish you use fish by the way
I used to sit next to the ridiculous fish
the guy who wrote fish is pretty nice guy.
But you just test it.
Make sure all of your installation
works cuz when it comes to actual game
time like you're now it's time
to put it on your computer.
You don't want things failing, then.
Make it fail now use a Docker image really
simple as doing the exact same thing.
Plus if you don't know how to use Docker,
great time to learn a little
bit about Docker, right.
It will help you a bunch
throughout your career.